---
title: Invited Talks
layout: default
hide: true
---

# {{ site.conference.short_name }} {{ site.conference.year }} Invited Talks 



## Day 1: Mon, March 28 

### _New Methods for Taming Endogeneity Bias in Observational Studies: Proxies, Bespoke Instruments and Invalid Instruments_ 

### Eric J. Tchetgen Tchetgen 

#### Abstract 

This talk will discuss recent innovations in causal inference literature on the
identification and estimation of causal effects from observational data in
presence of endogeneity or equivalently unmeasured confounding bias. We will
focus primarily on three recent developments: (i) The Proximal causal inference
framework that leverages imperfect proxies of unmeasured confounders to remove
hidden bias in observational analyses; (ii) Bespoke Instrumental variable
framework that leverages  a reference population in which a known intervention
sets the treatment to generate a bespoke instrument tailored to account for
endogeneity in a target population of interest; (iii)  Invalid instrumental
variable framework that leverages one or more invalid instruments to
nevertheless correct for endogeneity bias without requiring that core
instrumental variable assumptions hold.  We view these new techniques as
important strategies to relax the standard un-confoundedness assumptions
commonly used in practice.  Machine Learning tools implementing the methods and
corresponding small bias guarantees will be described along with several
empirical examples demonstrating the new methods in action.


## Day 2: Tue, March 29 


### _Machine Learning for Ocean and Climate Modeling: Advances & Challenges_ 


### Laure Zanna 

#### Abstract 

Climate simulations remain our best tools to predict global and regional
climate change. Climate projection uncertainty stem, in part, from the poor or
lacking representation of processes, such as turbulence, clouds that are not
resolved on the grid of global climate models. The representation of these
unresolved processes has been a bottleneck in improving climate projections.
The explosion of climate data and the power of machine learning algorithms are
suddenly offering new opportunities. For example, can data-driven machine
learning methods help us deepen our understanding of these unresolved processes
and simultaneously improve their representation in climate models to reduce
climate projections uncertainty?  In this talk, I will discuss the current
state of climate modeling and its future, focusing on the advantages and
challenges of using machine learning for climate projections. I will present
some of our recent work in which we leverage tools from machine learning and
deep learning to learn representations of unresolved ocean processes and
improve climate simulations. Our work suggests that machine learning could open
the door to discovering new physics from data and enhance climate predictions.
Yet, many questions remain unanswered, making the next decade exciting and
challenging for hybrid climate modeling.

## Day 3: Wed, March 29 

### _Using ML to Discover the Underlying Models of Medicine_
### Mihaela van der Schaar 
